Basic Controls: There is a palette of different kinds of items that you can place on the left panel of the game.  These have numbers underneath them.  To place a conveyor belt, you can either press 1 or click on the conveyor belt icon in the left panel and then left click in the grid to place it.  The W, A, S, and D keys rotate the piece and spacebar will flip before placing it.  To delete something, press 3 or click the trash can, then left click on the grid cell you want to delete.

The Robot:  This is that little guy that you are 'testing', the part that
moves around the level.  The goal is to get robots with the correct
input/output from the top of the level to the bottom exit, while discarding
the rest.

The Tape: The tape is the part of the game that displays all those red and
blue dots.  Note that the game will always READ the tape from the left side
(the beginning) and WRITE new dots on the end.  More on writing later.

The Code, or String: String is, I think, a programming term for a section of
code.  In this case the code is represented by Red and Blue dots
(later Yellow and Green).  In later levels, these dots represent binary
code, with blue being 1 and red being 0.  The manipulation of these dots is
what this game is all about!

Conveyer belts:  These simply move the robot throughout the levels.  A robot
can approach a conveyer belt from any direction.  For example a robot could
be placed on two conveyer belts both pointing at each other, and the robot
would keep going back and forth infinitely.

Conveyer belts are also the only tool that can be 'stacked', or 'bridged.'
Later levels will use this bridging quite a bit.  After building one
conveyer belt, add a bridge by holding down the shift key and placing
another bridge on top of your original in a different angle.  You should
end up with a plus sign looking configuration.

When a robot enters a tile that has a bridge, it will take the path in line
with it's original direction.  If a robot enters a  bridged tile from the
left it will always follow the horizontal path.  Note this is not the case
with unbridged tiles, as the robot will follow the conveyer belt in any
direction in that case.

Branches:  These are tools that 'read' the tape, and send the robot in one
of three different directions.  There are two types of tapes, and they both
behave exactly the same.  There is a Red/Blue branch (R/B), and a
Yellow/Green branch (Y/G).  In both cases they will look at the FIRST symbol
on the tape.  If the symbol matches one of the colors on the branch, that
color will be REMOVED from the tape, and the robot will go in the direction
of that color on the branch.  If the symbol is NOT on the branch, it will
NOT BE removed from the tape, and continue down the in between arrow on the
branch.

For example the current 'string' is Red-Yellow.  If the string goes to a
Yellow / Green branch, it will pass through and the string will remain Red -
Yellow.  (Strings are not altered by a branch if the correct color is not
detected).  However if the same string passed through a Red – Blue branch,
the machine would take off the 'Red', and send the robot down the red path.

A VERY IMPORTANT point to remember about branches is that once a branch has
read a color, that color is REMOVED.  To replace colors that have been
removed from your code, you will need to use writers.

Writers: Writers simply ADD the corresponding color to the END of your
string, and send the robot on along the arrow.  Think of writers as a
conveyer belt that adds a color.

The Select Tool:  The select tool allows you to manipulate large portions of
your level at the same time.  It is also a little under-explained in the
game.  Selecting sections of your level is easy, simply select the select
tool.  Now click and hold while dragging the mouse over an area.  Release
the mouse once you have selected the required area.

When you have a selected area, there are several things you can do:

Press the delete key to delete all selections.
Press Shift + C to copy your selection.
Note you can copy selections between levels.  This is very useful in later
levels, when a section of your new machine may have already been built in an
earlier level.
Press Shift + V after copying to paste your solution.  You will be able to
move the pasted selection around before placing it like a normal tool.
To further manipulate a selection, you must first CLICK AND DRAG your
selection.  You should see your entire selection 'lift off' and start
following your mouse.  While your selection is 'hovering' like this, you can:
Press the A or D keys to rotate your selection.
Press the spacebar to flip (reverse) your selection.
Note this does not reverse the 'polarity' (colors) on switches.  [at least at
the time of this writing]
Simply move your selection
When you are finished doing any of the above, simply release the mouse button
when your tiles are where you want them to be.  NOTE: These moved tiles will
overwrite any existing tiles on the board, so be careful!


(This file has mostly been copied and pasted from GameFAQs, but with all solutions removed.)
